Awareness
 Mind can never be intelligent - only no-mind is intelligent. Only no-mind is original and radical. Only no-mind is revolutionary - revolution in action.

This mind gives you a sort of stupor. Burdened by the memories of the past, burdened by the projections of the future, you go on living - at the minimum. You don't live at the maximum. Your flame remains very dim.

Once you start dropping thoughts, the dust that you have collected in the past, the flame arises - clean, clear, alive, young. Your whole life becomes a flame, and a flame without any smoke. That is what awareness is.

				Osho A Sudden Clash of Thunder Chapter 1
%
Transformation

A master in Zen is not simply a teacher. In all the religions there are only teachers. They teach you about subjects which you don't know, and they ask you to believe because there is no way to bring those experiences into objective reality. Neither has the teacher known them - he has believed them; he transfers his belief to somebody else.

Zen is not a believer's world. It is not for the faithful ones; it is for those daring souls who can drop all belief, unbelief, doubt, reason, mind, and simply enter into their pure existence without boundaries. But it brings a tremendous transformation.

Hence, let me say that while others are involved in philosophies, Zen is involved in metamorphosis, in a transformation. It is authentic alchemy: it changes you from base metal into gold. But its language has to be understood, not with your reasoning and intellectual mind but with your loving heart. Or even just listening, not bothering whether it is true or not. And a moment comes suddenly that you see it, which has been eluding you your whole life. Suddenly, what Gautam Buddha called "eighty-four thousand doors" open.

		Osho Zen: The Solitary Bird, Cuckoo of the Forest Chapter 6
%
Moment To Moment
The past is no more and the future is not yet: both are unnecessarily moving in directions which don't exist. One used to exist, but no longer exists, and one has not even started to exist. The only right person is one who lives moment to moment, whose arrow is directed to the moment, who is always here and now; wherever he is, his whole consciousness, his whole being, is involved in the reality of here and in the reality of now. That's the only right direction. Only such a man can enter into the golden gate. The present is the golden gate. Here-now is the golden gate. ...And you can be in the present only if you are not ambitious--no accomplishment, no desire to achieve power, money, prestige, even enlightenment, because all ambition leads you into the future. Only a non-ambitious man can remain in the present. A man who wants to be in the present has not to think, has just to see and enter the gate. Experience will come, but experience has not to be premeditated.
														Osho The Great Zen Master Ta Hui Chapter 37
%
   Comparision

Comparison brings inferiority, superiority. When you don't compare, all inferiority, all superiority, disappears. Then you are, you are simply there. A small bush or a big high tree--it doesn't matter; you are yourself. You are needed. A grass leaf is needed as much as the biggest star. Without the grass leaf God will be less than he is. This sound of the cuckoo is needed as much as any Buddha; the world will be less, will be less rich if this cuckoo disappears. Just look around. All is needed, and everything fits together. It is an organic unity: nobody is higher and nobody is lower, nobody superior, nobody inferior. Everybody is incomparably unique.

				Osho The Sun Rises in the Evening Chapter 4
%
     Exhaustion

   A man who lives through conscience becomes hard. A man who lives
   through consciousness remains soft. Why?--because a man who has some
   ideas about how to live, naturally becomes hard. He has continuously
   to carry his character around himself. That character is like an
   armor; his protection, his security; his whole life is invested in
   that character. And he always reacts to situations through the
   character, not directly. If you ask him a question, his answer is
   ready-made. That is the sign of a hard person--he is dull, stupid,
   mechanical. He may be a good computer, but he is not a man. You do
   something and he reacts in a well- established way. His reaction is
   predictable; he is a robot. The real man acts spontaneously. If you
   ask him a question, your question gets a response, not a reaction. He
   opens his heart to your question, exposes himself to your question,
   responds to it....

                                   Osho Take it Easy, Volume 1 Chapter 13
%
    Possibilities

   Mind can accept any boundary anywhere. But the reality is that, by its
   very nature, existence cannot have any boundary, because what will be
   beyond the boundary? - again another sky.
   That's why I am saying skies upon skies are available for your flight.
   Don't be content easily. Those who remain content easily remain small:
   small are their joys, small are their ecstasies, small are their
   silences, small is their being. But there is no need! This smallness
   is your own imposition upon your freedom, upon your unlimited
   possibilities, upon your unlimited potential.

                                                  Osho Live Zen Chapter 2
%
      Adventure

   Zen says truth has nothing to do with authority, truth has nothing to
   do with tradition, truth has nothing to do with the past - truth is a
   radical, personal realization. You have to come to it.
   Knowledge is certain; the search for personal knowing is very, very
   hazardous. Nobody can guarantee it. If you ask me if I can guarantee
   anything, I say I cannot guarantee you anything. I can only guarantee
   danger, that much is certain. I can only guarantee you a long
   adventure with every possibility of going astray and never reaching
   the goal. But one thing is certain: the very search will help you to
   grow.
   I can guarantee only growth. Danger will be there, sacrifice will be
   there; you will be moving every day into the unknown, into the
   uncharted, and there will be no map to follow, no guide to follow.
   Yes, there are millions of dangers and you can go astray and you can
   get lost, but that is the only way one grows.
   Insecurity is the only way to grow, to face danger is the only way to
   grow, to accept the challenge of the unknown is the only way to grow.
%
      Awareness

   Mind can never be intelligent - only no-mind is intelligent. Only
   no-mind is original and radical. Only no-mind is revolutionary -
   revolution in action.
   This mind gives you a sort of stupor. Burdened by the memories of the
   past, burdened by the projections of the future, you go on living - at
   the minimum. You don't live at the maximum. Your flame remains very
   dim.
   Once you start dropping thoughts, the dust that you have collected in
   the past, the flame arises - clean, clear, alive, young. Your whole
   life becomes a flame, and a flame without any smoke. That is what
   awareness is.

                                 Osho A Sudden Clash of Thunder Chapter 1
%
     Celebration

   Life is a moment to celebrate, to enjoy. Make it fun, a celebration,
   and then you will enter the temple. The temple is not for the
   long-faced, it has never been for them. Look at life--do you see
   sadness anywhere? Have you ever seen a tree depressed? Have you seen a
   bird anxiety-ridden? Have you seen an animal neurotic? No, life is not
   like that, not at all. Only man has gone wrong somewhere, and he has
   gone wrong somewhere because he thinks himself to be very wise, very
   clever. Your cleverness is your disease. Don't be too wise. Always
   remember to stop; don't go to the extreme. A little foolishness and a
   little wisdom is good, and the right combination makes you a buddha.

                                        Osho I Celebrate Myself Chapter 4
%
     Creativity

   Creativity is the quality that you bring to the activity that you are
   doing. It is an attitude, an inner approach - how you look at
   things....
   Not everybody can be a painter - and there is no need also. If
   everybody is a painter the world will be very ugly; it will be
   difficult to live! And not everybody can be a dancer, and there is no
   need. But everybody can be creative.
   Whatsoever you do, if you do it joyfully, if you do it lovingly, if
   your act of doing is not purely economical, then it is creative. If
   you have something growing out of it within you, if it gives you
   growth, it is spiritual, it is creative, it is divine. You become more
   divine as you become more creative.
   All the religions of the world have said God is the creator. I don't
   know whether he is the creator or not, but one thing I know: the more
   creative you become, the more godly you become. When your creativity
   comes to a climax, when your whole life becomes creative, you live in
   God. So he must be the creator because people who have been creative
   have been closest to him. Love what you do. Be meditative while you
%
      Fighting

   One moment it was there, another moment it is gone. One moment we are
   here, and another moment we have gone. And for this simple moment, how
   much fuss we make! How much violence, ambition, struggle, conflict,
   anger, hatred, just for this small moment! Just waiting for the train
   in a waiting room on a station, and creating so much fuss: fighting,
   hurting each other, trying to possess, trying to boss, trying to
   dominate - all that politics. And then the train comes and you are
   gone forever.

                                   Osho Take it Easy, Volume 1 Chapter 13
%
Healing

You carry your wound. With the ego, your whole being is a wound. And you carry it around. Nobody is interested in hurting you, nobody is positively waiting to hurt you; everybody is engaged in safeguarding his own wound. Who has got the energy? But still it happens, because you are so ready to be wounded, so ready, just waiting on the brink for anything.

You cannot touch a man of Tao. Why? - because there is no one to be touched. There is no wound. He is healthy, healed, whole. This word whole is beautiful. The word heal comes from the whole, and the word holy also comes from the whole. He is whole, healed, holy.

Be aware of your wound. Don't help it to grow, let it be healed; and it will be healed only when you move to the roots. The less the head, the more the wound will heal; with no head there is no wound. Live a headless life. Move as a total being, and accept things.

Just for twenty-four hours, try it - total acceptance, whatsoever happens. Someone insults you, accept it; don't react, and see what happens. Suddenly you will feel an energy flowing in you that you have not felt before.

					Osho The Empty Boat Chapter 10
%
    Friendliness

   First meditate, be blissful, then much love will happen of its own
   accord. Then being with others is beautiful and being alone is also
   beautiful. Then it is simple, too. You don't depend on others and you
   don't make others dependent on you. Then it is always a friendship, a
   friendliness. It never becomes a relationship, it is always a
   relatedness. You relate, but you don't create a marriage. Marriage is
   out of fear, relatedness is out of love. You relate; as long as things
   are moving beautifully, you share. And if you see that the moment has
   come to depart because your paths separate at this crossroad, you say
   good-bye with great gratitude for all that the other has been to you,
   for all the joys and all the pleasures and all the beautiful moments
   that you have shared with the other. With no misery, with no pain, you
   simply separate.

                                          Osho The White Lotus Chapter 10
%
        Guilt

   This moment!...this herenow...is forgotten when you start thinking in
   terms of achieving something. When the achieving mind arises, you lose
   contact with the paradise you are in. This is one of the most
   liberating approaches: it liberates you right now! Forget all about
   sin and forget all about saintliness; both are stupid. Both together
   have destroyed all the joys of humanity. The sinner is feeling guilty,
   hence his joy is lost. How can you enjoy life if you are continuously
   feeling guilty? if you are continuously going to the church to confess
   that you have done this wrong and that wrong? And wrong and wrong and
   wrong...your whole life seems to be made of sins. How can you live
   joyously? It becomes impossible to delight in life. You become heavy,
   loaded. Guilt sits on your chest like a rock, it crushes you; it does
   not allow you to dance. How can you dance? How can guilt dance? How
   can guilt sing? How can guilt love? How can guilt live? So the one who
   thinks he is doing something wrong is guilty, burdened, dead before
   death, has already entered into the grave.

                                    Osho Take it Easy, Volume 1 Chapter 3
%
      Laziness

   When you are lazy, it is a negative taste: you simply feel that you
   have no energy, you simply feel dull; you simply feel sleepy, you
   simply feel dead. When you are in a state of non-doing then you are
   full of energy--it is a very positive taste. You have full energy,
   overflowing. You are radiant, bubbling, vibrating, You are not sleepy,
   you are perfectly aware. You are not dead--you are tremendously
   alive....There is a possibility the mind can deceive you: it can
   rationalize laziness as non-doing. It can say, "I have become a Zen
   master," or, "I believe in Tao"--but you are not deceiving anybody
   else. You will be deceiving only yourself. So be alert.

                                 Osho A Sudden Clash of Thunder Chapter 8
%
      Maturity

   The distinction between the grasses and the blossoms is the same as
   between you not knowing that you are a buddha, and the moment you know
   that you are a buddha. In fact, there is no way to be otherwise.
   Buddha is completely blossomed, fully opened. His lotuses, his petals,
   have come to a completion.... Certainly, to be full of spring yourself
   is far more beautiful than the autumn dew falling on the lotus leaves.
   That is one of the most beautiful things to watch: when autumn dew
   falls on the lotus leaves and shine in the morning sun like real
   pearls. But of course it is a momentary experience. As the sun rises,
   the autumn dew starts evaporating.... This temporary beauty cannot be
   compared, certainly, with an eternal spring in your being. You look
   back as far as you can and it has always been there. You look forward
   as much as you can, and you will be surprised: it is your very being.
   Wherever you are it will be there, and the flowers will continue to
   shower on you. This is spiritual spring.

                          Osho No Mind: The Flowers of Eternity Chapter 5
%
        Mind

   This is the situation of your head: I see cycle-handles and pedals and
   strange things that you have gathered from everywhere. Such a small
   head...and no space to live in! And that rubbish goes on moving in
   your head; your head goes on spinning and weaving - it keeps you
   occupied.
   Just think what kind of thoughts go on inside your mind. One day just
   sit, close your doors, and write down for half an hour whatsoever is
   passing in your mind, and you will understand what I mean and you will
   be surprised what goes on inside your mind. It remains in the
   background, it is constantly there, it surrounds you like a cloud.
   With this cloud you cannot know reality; you cannot attain to
   spiritual perception.
   This cloud has to be dropped. And it is just with your decision to
   drop it that it will disappear. You are clinging to it - the cloud is
   not interested in you, remember it.

                              Osho The Sun Rises in the Evening Chapter 9
%
      Morality

   Bodhidharma ... far transcends moralists, puritans, so-called good
   people, do-gooders. He has touched the very rock bottom of the
   problem. Unless awareness arises in you, all your morality is bogus,
   all your culture is simply a thin layer which can be destroyed by
   anybody. But once your morality has come out of your awareness, not
   out of a certain discipline, then it is a totally different matter.
   Then you will respond in every situation out of your awareness. And
   whatever you do will be good.
   Awareness cannot do anything that is bad. That is the ultimate beauty
   of awareness, that anything that comes out of it is simply beautiful,
   is simply right, and without any effort and without any practice. So
   rather than cutting the leaves and the branches, cut the root. And to
   cut the root there is no other method than a single method: the method
   of being alert, of being aware, of being conscious.

                     Osho Bodhidharma, The Greatest Zen Master Chapter 15
%
    Participation

   Have you ever seen night going? Very few people even become aware of
   things which are happening every day. Have you ever seen the evening
   coming? The midnight and its song? The sunrise and its beauty?
   We are behaving almost like blind people. In such a beautiful world we
   are living in small ponds of our own misery. It is familiar, so even
   if somebody wants to pull you out, you struggle. You don't want to be
   pulled out of your misery, of your suffering. Otherwise there is so
   much joy all around, you have just to be aware of it and to become a
   participant, not a spectator.
   Philosophy is speculation, Zen is participation. Participate in the
   night leaving, participate in the evening coming, participate in the
   stars and participate in the clouds; make participation your lifestyle
   and the whole existence becomes such a joy, such an ecstasy. You could
   not have dreamed of a better universe.

                                          Osho Zen: The Miracle Chapter 2
%
The Source

Zen asks you to come out of the head and go to the basic source.... It is not that Zen is not aware of the uses of energy in the head, but if all the energy is used in the head, you will never become aware of your eternity.... You will never know as an experience what it is to be one with the whole. When the energy is just at the center, pulsating, when it is not moving anywhere, neither in the head nor in the heart, but it is at the very source from where the heart takes it, the head takes it, pulsating at the very source--that is the very meaning of Zazen. Zazen means just sitting at the very source, not moving anywhere, a tremendous force arises, a transformation of energy into light and love, into greater life, into compassion, into creativity. It can take many forms. But first you have to learn how to be at the source. Then the source will decide where your potential is. You can relax at the source, and it will take you to your very potential.

			Osho The Zen Manifesto: Freedom from Oneself Chapter 11
%
We Are The World

When thousands and thousands of people around the earth are celebrating, singing, dancing, ecstatic, drunk with the divine, there is no possibility of any global suicide. With such festivity and with such laughter, with such sanity and health, with such naturalness and spontaneity, how can there be a war?... Life has been given to you to create, and to rejoice, and to celebrate. When you cry and weep, when you are miserable, you are alone. When you celebrate, the whole existence participates with you. Only in celebration do we meet the ultimate, the eternal. Only in celebration do we go beyond the circle of birth and death.

					Osho I Celebrate Myself Chapter 4
%
Innocence

Zen says that if you drop knowledge - and within knowledge everything is included; your name, your identity, everything, because this has been given to you by others - if you drop all that has been given by others, you will have a totally different quality to your being: innocence. This will be a crucifixion of the persona, the personality, and there will be a resurrection of your innocence. You will become a child again, reborn.

Osho Dang Dang Doko Dang Chapter 7
%
Ripeness

Only if your meditation has brought you a light that shines in every night will even death not be a death to you but a door to the divine. With the light in your heart, death itself is transformed into a door, and you enter into the universal spirit; you become one with the ocean. And unless you know the oceanic experience, you have lived in vain. Now is always the time, and the fruit is always ripe. You just need to gather courage to enter into your inner forest. The fruit is always ripe and the time is always the right time. There is no such thing as wrong time.

					Osho A Sudden Clash of Thunder Chapter 6
%
Suppression

In Sanskrit the name is alaya vigyan, the house where you go on throwing into the basement things that you want to do but you cannot, because of social conditions, culture, civilization. But they go on collecting there, and they affect your actions, your life, very indirectly. Directly, they cannot face you--you have forced them into darkness, but from the dark side they go on influencing your behavior. They are dangerous, it is dangerous to keep all those inhibitions inside you. It is possible that these are the things that come to a climax when a person goes insane. Insanity is nothing but all these suppressions coming to a point where you cannot control them anymore. But madness is acceptable, while meditation is not--and meditation is the only way to make you absolutely sane.

				Osho The Great Zen Master Ta Hui Chapter 11
%
Ice-olation

We are miserable because we are too much in the self. What does it mean when I say we are too much in the self? And what exactly happens when we are too much in the self? Either you can be in existence or you can be in the self--both are not possible together. To be in the self means to be apart, to be separate. To be in the self means to become an island. To be in the self means to draw a boundary line around you. To be in the self means to make a distinction between 'this I am' and 'that I am not'. The definition, the boundary, between "I" and "not I" is what the self is--the self isolates. And it makes you frozen--you are no longer flowing. If you are flowing the self cannot exist. Hence people have become almost like ice-cubes. They don't have any warmth, they don't have any love--love is warmth and they are afraid of love. If warmth comes to them they will start melting and the boundaries will disappear. In love the boundaries disappear; in joy also the boundaries disappear, because joy is not cold.

			Osho Zen: The Path of Paradox, Volume 1 Chapter 5
%
Breakthrough

To transform breakdowns into breakthroughs is the whole function of a master. The psychotherapist simply patches you up. That is his function. He is not there to transform you. You need a meta-psychology, the psychology of the buddhas.

It is the greatest adventure in life to go through a breakdown consciously. It is the greatest risk because there is no guarantee that the breakdown will become a breakthrough. It does become, but these things cannot be guaranteed. Your chaos is very ancient - for many, many lives you have been in chaos. It is thick and dense. It is almost a universe in itself. So when you enter into it with your small capacity, of course there is danger. But without facing this danger nobody has ever become integrated, nobody has ever become an individual, indivisible.

Zen, or meditation, is the method which will help you to go through the chaos, through the dark night of the soul, balanced, disciplined, alert. The dawn is not far away, but before you can reach the dawn, the dark night has to be passed through. And as the dawn comes closer, the night will become darker.

				Osho Walking in Zen, Sitting in Zen Chapter 1
%
The Rebel

People are afraid, very much afraid of those who know themselves. They have a certain power, a certain aura and a certain magnetism, a charisma that can take out alive, young people from the traditional imprisonment....

The enlightened man cannot be enslaved - that is the difficulty - and he cannot be imprisoned.... Every genius who has known something of the inner is bound to be a little difficult to be absorbed; he is going to be an upsetting force. The masses don't want to be disturbed, even though they may be in misery; they are in misery, but they are accustomed to the misery. And anybody who is not miserable looks like a stranger.

The enlightened man is the greatest stranger in the world; he does not seem to belong to anybody. No organization confines him, no community, no society, no nation.

Osho The Zen Manifesto: Freedom from Oneself Chapter 9
%
Intensity

Zen says: Think of all the great words and great teachings as your deadly enemy. Avoid them, because you have to find your own source. You have not to be a follower, an imitator. You have to be an original individual; you have to find your innermost core on your own, with no guide, no guiding scriptures. It is a dark night, but with the intense fire of inquiry you are bound to come to the sunrise.

Everybody who has burned with intense inquiry has found the sunrise. Others only believe. Those who believe are not religious, they are simply avoiding the great adventure of religion by believing.

						Osho Zen: Turning In Chapter 10
%
     Past Lives

   The child can become conscious only if in his past life he has
   meditated enough, has created enough meditative energy to fight with
   the darkness that death brings. One simply is lost in an oblivion and
   then suddenly finds a new womb and forgets completely about the old
   body. There is a discontinuity. This darkness, this unconsciousness
   creates the discontinuity.
   The East has been working hard to penetrate these barriers. And ten
   thousand years' work has not been in vain. Everybody can penetrate to
   the past life, or many past lives. But for that you have to go deeper
   into your meditation, for two reasons: unless you go deeper, you
   cannot find the door to another life; secondly, you have to be deeper
   in meditation because if you find the door of another life, a flood of
   events will come into the mind. It is hard enough even to carry one
   life....

                               Osho Hyakujo: The Everest of Zen Chapter 7
%
      Politics

   Anybody who can be a good pretender, a hypocrite, will become your
   leader politically, will become your priest religiously. All that he
   needs is hypocrisy, all that he needs is cunningness, all that he
   needs is a facade to hide behind. Your politicians live double lives,
   your priests live double lives--one from the front door, the other
   from the back door. And the back-door life is their real life. Those
   front-door smiles are just false, those faces looking so innocent are
   just cultivated. If you want to see the reality of the politician you
   will have to see him from his back door. There he is in his nudity, as
   he is, and so is the priest. These two kinds of cunning people have
   dominated humanity. And they found out very early on that if you want
   to dominate humanity, make it weak, make it feel guilty, make it feel
   unworthy. Destroy its dignity, take all glory away from it, humiliate
   it. And they have found such subtle ways of humiliation that they
   don't come in the picture at all; they leave it to you to humiliate
   yourself, to destroy yourself. They have taught you a kind of slow
   suicide.
%
    Postponement

   Postponement is simply stupid. Tomorrow you will also have to decide,
   so why not today? And do you think that tomorrow you will be wiser
   than today? Do you think that tomorrow you will be livelier than
   today? Do you think that tomorrow you will be younger than today,
   fresher than today? Tomorrow you will be older, your courage will be
   less; tomorrow you will be more experienced, your cunningness will be
   more; tomorrow death will come closer--you will start wavering and
   being more afraid. Never postpone for the tomorrow. And who knows?
   Tomorrow may come or may not come. If you have to decide you have to
   decide right now. Dr. Vogel, the dentist, finished his examination on
   a pretty young patient. "Miss Baseman," he said, "I'm afraid I'm going
   to have to pull out your wisdom teeth!" "Oh, my!" exclaimed the girl.
   "I'd rather have a baby!" "Well," said Dr. Vogel, "could you make up
   your mind so that I can adjust the chair?" Make up your mind. Don't go
   on postponing infinitely.

                                       Osho Dang Dang Doko Dang Chapter 8
%
Ordinariness

Sometimes it happens that you become one, in some rare moment. Watch the ocean, the tremendous wildness of it--and suddenly you forget your split, your schizophrenia; you relax. Or, moving in the Himalayas, seeing the virgin snow on the Himalayan peaks, suddenly a coolness surrounds you and you need not be false because there is no other human being to be false to. You fall together. Or, listening to beautiful music, you fall together. Whenever, in whatsoever situation, you become one, a peace, a happiness, a bliss, surrounds you, arises in you. You feel fulfilled. There is no need to wait for these moments--these moments can become your natural life. These extraordinary moments can become ordinary moments - that is the whole effort of Zen. You can live an extraordinary life in a very ordinary life: cutting wood, chopping wood, carrying water from the well, you can be tremendously at ease with yourself. Cleaning the floor, cooking food, washing the clothes, you can be perfectly at ease--because the whole question is of you doing your action totally, enjoying, delighting in it.

					Osho Dang Dang Doko Dang Chapter 3
%
       Rebirth

   In Zen you are coming from nowhere and you are going to nowhere. You
   are just now, here, neither coming nor going. Everything passes by
   you; your consciousness reflects it but it does not get identified.
   When a lion roars in front of a mirror, do you think the mirror roars?
   Or when the lion is gone and a child comes dancing, the mirror
   completely forgets about the lion and starts dancing with the
   child--do you think the mirror dances with the child? The mirror does
   nothing, it simply reflects. Your consciousness is only a mirror.
   Neither do you come, nor do you go. Things come and go. You become
   young, you become old; you are alive, you are dead. All these states
   are simply reflections in an eternal pool of consciousness.

                                 Osho Osho Live Zen, Volume, 2 Chapter 16
%
 Integration

The conflict is in man. Unless it is resolved there, it cannot be resolved anywhere else. The politics is within you; it is between the two parts of the mind. A very small bridge exists. If that bridge is broken through some accident, through some physiological defect or something else, the person becomes split, the person becomes two persons and the phenomenon of schizophrenia or split personality happens.

If the bridge is broken - and the bridge is very fragile - then you become two, you behave like two persons. In the morning you are very loving, very beautiful; in the evening you are very angry, absolutely different. You don't remember your morning...how can you remember? Another mind was functioning - and the person becomes two persons. If this bridge is strengthened so much that the two minds disappear as two and become one, then integration, then crystallization, arises.

What George Gurdjieff used to call the crystallization of being is nothing but these two minds becoming one, the meeting of the male and the female within, the meeting of yin and yang, the meeting of the left and right, the meeting of logic and illogic, the meeting of Plato and Aristotle.

				Osho Ancient Music in the Pines Chapter 1
%
Abundance

In the East people have condemned the body, condemned matter, called matter "illusory," maya - it does not really exist, it only appears to exist; it is made of the same stuff as dreams are made of. They denied the world, and that is the reason for the East remaining poor, sick, in starvation.

Half of humanity has been accepting the inner world but denying the outer world. The other half of humanity has been accepting the material world and denying the inner world. Both are half, and no man who is half can be contented. You have to be whole: rich in the body, rich in science; rich in meditation, rich in consciousness. Only a whole person is a holy person, according to me.

I want Zorba and Buddha to meet together. Zorba alone is hollow. His dance has not an eternal significance, it is momentary pleasure. Soon he will be tired of it. Unless you have inexhaustible sources, available to you from the cosmos itself...unless you become existential, you cannot become whole. This is my contribution to humanity: the whole person.

Osho Communism and Zen Fire, Zen Wind Chapter 2
%
       Sharing

   As you move above to the fourth center - that is the heart - your
   whole life becomes a sharing of love. The third center has created the
   abundance of love. By reaching to the third center in meditation, you
   have become so overflowing with love, with compassion, and you want to
   share. It happens at the fourth center, the heart.
   That's why even in the ordinary world people think love comes out of
   the heart. For them it is just hearsay, they have heard it; they don't
   know it because they have never reached to their heart. But the
   meditator finally reaches to the heart. As he has reached to the
   center of his being - the third center - suddenly an explosion of love
   and compassion and joy and blissfulness and benediction has arisen in
   him with such a force that it hits his heart and opens the heart. The
   heart is just in the middle of all your seven centers - three centers
   below, three centers above. You have come exactly to the middle.

                  Osho The Search: Talks on the Ten Bulls of Zen Chapter2
%
       Sorrow

   This pain is not to make you sad, remember. That's where people go on
   missing.... This pain is just to make you more alert--because people
   become alert only when the arrow goes deep into their heart and wounds
   them. Otherwise they don't become alert. When life is easy,
   comfortable, convenient, who cares? Who bothers to become alert? When
   a friend dies, there is a possibility. When your woman leaves you
   alone--those dark nights, you are lonely. You have loved that woman so
   much and you have staked all, and then suddenly one day she is gone.
   Crying in your loneliness, those are the occasions when, if you use
   them, you can become aware. The arrow is hurting: it can be used. The
   pain is not to make you miserable, the pain is to make you more aware!
   And when you are aware, misery disappears.

                                   Osho Take it Easy, Volume 2 Chapter 12
%
      The Miser

   The moment you become miserly you are closed to the basic phenomenon
   of life: expansion, sharing. The moment you start clinging to things,
   you have missed the target--you have missed. Because things are not
   the target, you, your innermost being, is the target--not a beautiful
   house, but a beautiful you; not much money, but a rich you; not many
   things, but an open being, available to millions of things.

                                Osho Ancient Music in the Pines Chapter 2
%
Existence

You are not accidental. Existence needs you. Without you something will be missing in existence and nobody can replace it. That's what gives you dignity, that the whole existence will miss you. The stars and sun and moon, the trees and birds and earth - everything in the universe will feel a small place is vacant which cannot be filled by anybody except you.

This gives you a tremendous joy, a fulfillment that you are related to existence, and existence cares for you. Once you are clean and clear, you can see tremendous love falling on you from all dimensions.

		Osho God is Dead: Now Zen is the Only Living Truth Chapter 1
%
The Creator

There are two types of creators in the world. One type of creator works with objects - a poet, a painter, they work with objects, they create things. The other type of creator, the mystic, creates himself. He doesn't work with objects, he works with the subject; he works on himself, his own being. And he is the real creator, the real poet, because he makes himself into a masterpiece.

You are carrying a masterpiece hidden within you, but you are standing in the way. Just move aside, then the masterpiece will be revealed. Everyone is a masterpiece, because God never gives birth to anything less than that. Everyone carries that masterpiece hidden for many lives, no knowing who they are and just trying on the surface to become someone.

Drop the idea of becoming someone, because you are already a masterpiece. You cannot be improved. You have only to come to it, to know it, to realize it. God himself has created you; you cannot be improved.

							Osho Ah, This! Chapter 1
%
Schizophrenia
Man is split. Schizophrenia is a normal condition of man--at least now. It may not have been so in the primitive world, but centuries of conditioning, civilization, culture and religion have made man a crowd--divided, split, contradictory.... But because this split is against his nature, deep down somewhere hidden the unity still survives. Because the soul of man is one, all the conditionings at the most destroy the periphery of the man. But the center remains untouched--that's how man continues to live. But his life has become a hell. The whole effort of Zen is how to drop this schizophrenia, how to drop this split personality, how to drop the divided mind of man, how to become undivided, integrated, centered, crystallized. The way you are, you cannot say that you are. You don't have a being. You are a marketplace--many voices. If you want to say 'yes', immediately the 'no' is there. You cannot even utter a simple word 'yes' with totality.... In this way happiness is not possible; unhappiness is a natural consequence of a split personality.

						Osho Dang Dang Doko Dang Chapter 3
%
    The Outsider

   So you are feeling yourself an outsider. This is good. This is the
   transitory period. Now you have to be alert not to fill yourself with
   pain and misery. Now that God is no longer there, who is going to
   console you? You don't need any consolation. Humanity has come of age.
   Be a man, be a woman, and stand on your own feet.... The only way to
   be connected with existence is to go inwards, because there at the
   center you are still connected. You have been disconnected physically
   from your mother. That disconnection was absolutely necessary to make
   you an individual in your own right. But you are not disconnected from
   the universe. Your connection with the universe is of consciousness.
   You cannot see it, so you have to go deep down with great awareness,
   watchfulness, witnessing, and you will find the connection. The buddha
   is the connection!

             Osho God is Dead: Now Zen is the Only Living Truth Chapter 3
%
     Turning in

   Turning inwards is not a turning at all. Going inwards is not a going
   at all. Turning inwards simply means that you have been running after
   this desire and that, and you have been running and running and you
   have been coming again and again to frustration.That each desire
   brings misery, that there is no fulfillment through desire. That you
   never reach anywhere, that contentment is impossible. Seeing this
   truth, that running after desires takes you nowhere, you stop. Not
   that you make any effort to stop. If you make any effort to stop it is
   again running, in a subtle way. You are still desiring--maybe now it
   is desirelessness that you desire. If you are making an effort to go
   in, you are still going out. Any effort can only take you out,
   outwards. All journeys are outward journeys, there is no inward
   journey. How can you journey inwards? You are already there, there is
   no point in going. When going stops, journeying disappears; when
   desiring is no more clouding your mind, you are in. This is called
   turning in. But it is not a turning at all, it is simply not going
   out.
%
   We Are The World

   When thousands and thousands of people around the earth are
   celebrating, singing, dancing, ecstatic, drunk with the divine, there
   is no possibility of any global suicide. With such festivity and with
   such laughter, with such sanity and health, with such naturalness and
   spontaneity, how can there be a war?... Life has been given to you to
   create, and to rejoice, and to celebrate. When you cry and weep, when
   you are miserable, you are alone. When you celebrate, the whole
   existence participates with you. Only in celebration do we meet the
   ultimate, the eternal. Only in celebration do we go beyond the circle
   of birth and death.

                                        Osho I Celebrate Myself Chapter 4
%
Aloneness

When you are alone you are not alone, you are simply lonely - and there is a tremendous difference between loneliness and aloneness. When you are lonely you are thinking of the other, you are missing the other.

Loneliness is a negative state. You are feeling that it would have been better if the other were there - your friend, your wife, your mother, your beloved, your husband. It would have been good if the other were there, but the other is not. Loneliness is absence of the other.

Aloneness is the presence of oneself. Aloneness is very positive. It is a presence, overflowing presence. You are so full of presence that you can fill the whole universe with your presence and there is no need for anybody.

			Osho The Discipline of Transcendence, Volume 1 Chapter 2
%
